Author: Tilman Rassy <rassy@math.tu-berlin.de>
$Id: README,v 1.1 2009/10/27 16:00:12 linges Exp $


                                    SAMPLES


This directory contains sample documents for the LaTeX dialect in which the
content for the Mumie e-learning platform is written. Use them as templates
for your own documents and as a source of information how to use the commands
and environments implemented by this package.

If you want to create previews and/or checkin the documents on a Mumie server,
you must mount this directory to your checkin tree. Section 2 explains how to
do that.


1. Overview of the files
   =====================

1.1. Basic examples
     --------------

Recall that there are predefined structures for Mumie elements and subelements,
e.g., "equivalence side-by-side" or "proposition list". The following files
give examples for that. The filenames should be self-explanatory:

  alg_top_bottom.src.tex
  app_free.src.tex
  def_free.src.tex
  def_multiple_mixed.src.tex
  def_multiple_side_by_side.src.tex
  def_multiple_top_bottom.src.tex
  def_side_by_side.src.tex
  def_simple.src.tex
  def_top_bottom.src.tex
  exm_free.src.tex
  mot_free.src.tex
  thm_equivalence_side_by_side.src.tex
  thm_equivalence_top_bottom.src.tex
  thm_free.src.tex
  thm_implication_side_by_side.src.tex
  thm_implication_top_bottom.src.tex
  thm_multiple_mixed.src.tex
  thm_prop_list.src.tex
  thm_simple.src.tex
  vis_free.src.tex

The following files provide examples for different categories of problems:

  prb_applet.src.tex
  prb_mchoice.src.tex
  prb_traditional.src.tex

The first one references an applet. The source, master, and content files of
the applet are all contained in this directory; they are:

  ProblemApplet.src.java
  ProblemApplet.content.jar
  ProblemApplet.meta.xml

There is also an example for including multimedia components in a document:

  thm_with_media.src.tex

The document (a theorem) includes an image, an applet and a flash movie. The
master and content files of the three multimedia documents are:

  img_an_image.meta.xml
  img_an_image.content.png
  apl_an_applet.meta.xml
  apl_an_applet.content.jar
  fla_a_flash_movie.meta.xml
  fla_a_flash_movie.content.swf

They are contained in this directory, too.

The following file demonstrates the use of the \cnum command:

  cnum_demo.src.tex

The following file is an example for a summary:

  sum_free.src.tex

It references a generic document, the master file of which,

  g_sum_fee.meta.xml,

is contained in this section as well.

The directory provides an example for links from one document to another. The
document containing the links is:

  thm_link_origin.src.tex

The link targets are the following two generic documents:

  g_def_link_target.meta.xml
  g_exm_link_target.meta.xml

They are implemented by:

  def_link_target.src.tex
  exm_link_target.src.tex


1.2. Course-like documents, list structure
     -------------------------------------

There are examples for course-like documents with list structure. The files are
contained in the subdirectory

  course_list

In the following, all filenames denote files in this subdirectory.

The subdirectory contains one course:

  crs_list.src.tex

The course is composed of seven course sections

  csc_lecture_1.src.tex
  csc_lecture_2.src.tex
  csc_lecture_3.src.tex
  csc_lecture_4.src.tex
  csc_lecture_5.src.tex
  csc_lecture_6.src.tex
  csc_lecture_7.src.tex

and 19 worksheets

  wks_homework_2_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_2_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_3_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_3_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_4_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_4_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_4_3.src.tex
  wks_homework_5_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_5_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_6_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_6_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_6_3.src.tex
  wks_homework_6_4.src.tex
  wks_homework_7_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_7_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_1.src.tex
  wks_homework_2.src.tex
  wks_homework_3.src.tex
  wks_homework_4.src.tex

The worksheets wks_homework_<N>_<M>.src.tex are attached to the course section
csc_lecture_<N>.src.tex, where <N> and <M> are numbers. The worksheets
wks_homework_<N>.src.tex are directly included in the course.

The course section csc_lecture_1.src.tex is filled with dummy elements and
subelements. The other course sections are empty. The dummy elements and
subelements are:

  apl_something_7.src.tex
  def_something_1.src.tex
  def_something_3.src.tex
  def_something_6.src.tex
  exm_something_2_2.src.tex
  exm_something_2.src.tex
  exm_something_3_2.src.tex
  exm_something_4_2.src.tex
  exm_something_6_1.src.tex
  exm_something_6_2.src.tex
  rmk_something_1.src.tex
  rmk_something_2_1.src.tex
  rmk_something_3_1.src.tex
  rmk_something_4_1.src.tex
  thm_something_2.src.tex
  thm_something_4.src.tex
  thm_something_5.src.tex
  vis_something_3.src.tex
  vis_something_4_3.src.tex
  vis_something_4.src.tex
  vis_something_5_1.src.tex
  vis_something_5_2.src.tex
  vis_something_6_3.src.tex
  vis_something_6_4.src.tex
  vis_something_7_1.src.tex
  vis_something_7_2.src.tex

The worksheet wks_homework_2_1.src.tex is filled with dummy problems. The other
worksheets are empty. The dummy problems are:

  prb_something_1.src.tex
  prb_something_2.src.tex
  prb_something_3.src.tex
  prb_something_4.src.tex

The course and all course sections and worksheets have the same summary, which
is the generic of

  sum_something.src.tex

(the generic document is automatically created by means of the \creategeneric
command).

The course is assigned to the class

  cls_something.meta.xml

which, in turn, is assigned to the semenester

  sem_something.meta.xml


2. Mounting to the checkin tree
   ============================

To mount the directory to the checkin tree, type

  ./mount_checkin.sh

in this directory. After that, you will find this directory as

  <checkin_root>/samples

in your checkin tree, where <checkin_root> is your checkin root directory. The
latter is the value of the environment variable MM_CHECKIN_ROOT, or
$HOME/mumie/checkin if the environment variable is not set.

To unmount the directory from the checkin tree, type

  ./unmount_checkin.sh

in this directory.


-- END Of FILE --
